-Previously on "The Americans."
-Who killed Vlad?
-I don't know.
-Don't lie to me.
-mom.
-Happy birthday, Henry.
-We have to be
able to trust each.
-I know, I'm sorry.
-And Amelia?
-Ninth grade, cheerleading.
-Oh my god, no.
-Yes.
Most of our mother
and daughter time
is spend cooking for bake sales,
and there's boys, boys, boys.
-Nothing much else to
worry about, these kids.
-Nothing prepares you
for them growing up.
-An agent called the service,
with surveillance tight,
we can't do a dead drop.
I've got him coming
here to do a pass.
It can't be me.
He's going to be
looking for a blue hat
and an 11-year-old boy.
-We don't use our kids.
-Grey pants, grey blazer,
green tie with white pattern.
-Nina?
Paige and Henry.
Go.
I should have done
it without Henry.
-He's supposed to be
with Martha tonight.
-No,no.
I'll make an excuse.
-No, if the FBI were part of
this, if they know about this,
we need to find out.
-Who would do this?
-Want the list?
Someone who knows us.
Every single one of us.
Someone who_is
onto the operation.
2! 7! 1! OI
3, 6, 4, 2, 9, 7, 2, 9, 5, 3.
Mom, we're up.
-Get the oranges out.
-All right.
Have a great day.
Mike,
you forgot your backpack.
-Oh, this looks fabulous.
-You OK?
-I'm not feeling so great.
-So don't push it.
Take a sick day.
-I've got a lot to do today.
-They're lucky to have you.
-You know, I saw in
the Bureau newsletter
that there's a senior
clerk pOSItlon opening up.
-What department?
-Office of Equal
Employment Opportunity.
You know, secretaries usually
top out at GS7, senior clerks,
they go all the way to GS9.
-We||, are there
any clerk openings
in counter intelligence?
-No, not right now.
-You should talk to personnel,
put in an application
so you're top of the list the
next time one opens up there.
-We||, sure but this
one is open now.
-Martha, you're
smart, you're capable,
you're working in a department
that does important work.
I mean, don't you
want to stay and rise
up somewhere where you
can make a difference?
-Hm.
What was supposed
to be a family weekend
getaway turned tragic--
-You're right.
Agent Gaad would be luclq
to have me as a clerk.
and daughter, Amelia,
were brutally gunned down
in an 11 floor room--
-Oh, this is awful.
police have arrested--
-What happened?
-A family was murdered in
their hotel room in Alexandria.
The parents and their daughter.
-Good lord.
-Now, do you think
this is a burglary
or some Charles
Manson type thing?
-Martha, it's not a
Charles Manson thing.
-OK.
Have a safe flight, hon.
-Love you.
-Love you too.
-Express shock and outrage and
phones are ringing off the hook
at a local security company
where many have inquired
about installing alarm
systems in their home.
-They were killed in a hotel
right near old town Alexandria.
-God, turn that off.
-But it's the news.
-I don't think so but--
good morning, Mr. Phillip.
-Morning, Stavos.
-I need to talk to you about--
-Give me five minutes
and I Will be all yours.
What did Moscow say?
-I didn't get the signal.
The kids were up, I didn't
want to leave them downstairs.
-OK.
-Martha?
-Hour and a half in
Gaad's office on the tape,
but not a word
about the murders.
They're not on it at FBI.
They do not know who
Emmett and Leann are.
Let's just see
what Moscow knows.
You wanna make the drop?
Get out on the street a little?
I can listen to the numbers.
-Come in.
-Hey.
-Stan.
-Hey, sorry to
barge in like this.
Is this a bad moment?
-No, are you kidding?
-Never.
-Oh, great, great.
-How are you?
-Good, good.
I've brought some
friends with me.
-Great.
-This is Mike Orendorrf.
-Mike.
-And this is Stewart Bally.
-Hi.
-Mike works down
the hall from me,
and Stewart's his
brother-in-law.
He's getting married to a very
lovely young lady named Sarah.
-Oh, great.
-Second marriage.
Gonna do it right this time.
-Yeah.
Right.
So we need a bachelor
weekend, March 12 to 14,
something that's not going
to wreck the marriage.
-OK.
Budget?
-We||, Stewart owns
his own plumbing
business, very successful.
-Maybe Montreal?
I mean, it can be a little
cold that time of year,
but it's very European, and
it's only a two hour flight.
-Or there's that great
dude ranch in Kentucky.
We sent some guys
there last year,
you know, horseback riding,
trout fishing, dove hunting.
They brew their own moonshine.
-I told ya.
This is the guy-- guys.
-Let me, uh, let me
show you a brochure.
-My mother has that same
clock in her kitchen.
-Yeah.
-I got the signal.
Chesapeake tonight.
They want us to check
out Emmett's agent.
-Do they think he did it?
-I don't know.
I don't think they know.
If Emmett's agent
turned, they definitely
had someone watching the
brush pass in Alexandria.
-If that happened, they
would have gotten us by now.
-Why not?
-Either way, we still have
to check out this guy.
-You go.
I'm gonna stay with the kids.
-OK, good.
Good.
The
Soviet foreign minister
wasn't pleased one
of his diplomats
got shot in the
back of the head.
His body
was found in a dumpster.
DC's a dangerous place.
The State
keeps asking questions.
I can't really give
answers, someone
may have to take the fall.
-I just think the teachers
should communicate
so if Miss Bell gives us
a maths test on Thursday,
Mr. Abernathy doesn't give us
a history test the same day
because you can't
study enough for both.
-Right.
-You don't learn anything.
And you get bad grades, then
you just don't feel good.
-Right.
-Dad, do you really have to go?
-Three new agencies have
opened up in the last month.
The one around the corner is
offering Incluswe packages.
-What's inclusive packages?
-It's where they give
you all your food,
airfare, hotel, you just pay
once, then you forget about it.
-Oh.
-The problem is we have to
figure out a way to keep up.
We could be wiped out.
-What it help if we came to
work with you on the weekends?
-No, it's not that bad.
He's exaggerating.
Come here.
-But I do have to travel
more, you know, make
friends with _the hotel
managers, figure out
a way we can be better
than the competition,
so I will see you
in a couple of days.
Bye.
-Bye.
-Bye, team.
-Bye, Dad.
-Come on.
-mom, come on.
-Coming.
Mr. Dameran, I'm very sorry
to speak to you in this way
instead of in person.
-We||-- well, then
speak to me in person.
Look, I put my life on
the line to get here.
I don't think it's
asking much too
talk to an actual human being.
-I understand
completely, and we're
very grateful you've come.
Just, we have procedures we
absolutely have to follow.
I'm very sorry.
-I have to be at
work in 25 minutes.
You get somebody in
here or I'll leave.
-You're absolutely right.
I'm taking care of it now.
I'm sorry.
-Some of these frustrations,
despite our numerous efforts,
have not been solved yet.
-Look, I want to do something
really important for the cause,
but if I'm caught coming in
around at the embassy, it'll--
-Of course.
Mr. Dameran, I understand
if you cannot wait.
Just maybe, you want to
tell me a little bit now
-How's it going?
Any look on the contracts?
-So far, nothing, but
I'm just getting started.
How are the kids?
-I'm about to pick them up.
-Yeah, better than
the bus today.
That's good.
Bye, honey.
-I'll talk to you later.
-I almost gave up on you.
-We have a walk-in.
-What do you now about it?
-I'm not on the
team handling it.
I haven't heard much.
-Well, do you know
what time he came in?
-No.
-Well, when was
the first time you
heard somebody talking about it?
-About 11 o'clock.
-We||, tell me about
our Arkady's movements.
-He's in and out of his
office all day, very busy.
-After 11 o'clock?
-Yes, until about 2 o'clock.
He was in there very long time.
-You see any cables going out?
-There's always cables.
-Anything high priority?
-No, I wasn't close
enough to see.
I'm sorry I don't have more.
-This is good.
This is very good.
I gotta get on it.
-Your report can wait an hour.
Come here.
-So he's not in?
Well, can I leave
him a message then?
Tell them, I really
enjoyed our dinner.
The steak was excellent.
Did you get that?
I really enjoyed our dinner.
The steak was excellent.
OK.
Thanks.
-Fred, um, we need to talk.
I'm a friend of Paul's.
You're-- you're doing great.
You just send them
an emergency signal
and now you're on
your escape plan.
You probably think
I'm FBI or DOD
or Lockheed Security or CIA.
I know you feared
this day would come.
Paul warned you, prepared you
probably and rigged that box
for you, but this is
something different.
Nobody has caught you.
Fred, listen to me.
Listen to me.
We've met before.
In old town Alexander, you
were supposed to hand something
to Paul, but he couldn't do
it so you handed it to me.
I looked different
then, but look close.
It's me.
Man in blue baseball
cap with a boy.
How could I know that?
-I can think of a lot or ways.
-OK, I'll take the
automobile insurance.
-Uh0huh.
-Can I go watch TV?
-I'm almost at retirement.
-He always wants to watch
TV when he's behind.
-Maybe I'm just
a little bit more
interest in real
life than the game.
-Yeah.
Real life, watching TV.
-Hello?
Mom, it's your turn.
-Hang on.
I have to take a
message for Dad.
-mom, I'm bored.
-You know what?
You guys want to go see a movie?
-Yeah.
-We could go see "Raiders
of the Lost Ark."
-Cool.
-If we left right now, we
could make the next show.
-I thought we're
having family time.
-You'd rather play Life
than watch "Raiders
of the Lost Ark?"
Are you insane?
-We can have family
time at the movie.
You guys, come on,
go get your coats.
Quick, quick, quick.
-Fred, you have
to untie my hands.
-I still don't know who you are.
-You do know who I am.
I've told you who I am, and
we do not have much time.
-I'm sorry.
I'm so sorry I have to do this.
-Those model-- the model kits.
Those model kits that
you have In your closet.
They were gifts for
his son, weren't they?
Weren't they?
We don't usually tell
people about our kids,
so you must really
mean a lot to him.
It is OK, Fred.
Fred, it's OK.
You know, it's the truth.
We're both his friends.
-I'm gonna meet him.
I'll tell him
about you, and then
we'll see what he wants to do.
-You can't.
-Why?
-Is there any chance
that you told somebody
about your
relationship with Paul
or that they
guessed by accident?
Even the littlest-- I know.
I know you would never
betray him on purpose.
I know that.
But is there any chance
someone found out?
-Why are you asking me this?
-Because it's important.
-No.
Of course not.
-Why did your surveillance
tighten up on you in DC?
-They tightened up on
everybody at the meetings.
They're paranoid.
Now, tell me what
the hell is going on!
-I believe you.
I do.
I-- I-- I_see all that
money In your bag.
You didn't spend a penny.
You didn't do it for the money.
You did it for something much
bigger, just like Paul said.
I understand why he trusted you.
I do.
Fred, I have to
tell you something,
and it is going to be hard.
Did you see the story about
the couple that was murdered
in a hotel room in
old town Alexandria?
-With there daughter.
-Yes.
That was Paul.
-No, it wasn't.
I saw the picture in the paper.
-No, you only ever
saw him in disguise,
like I'm wearing now,
for your own protection.
-Why?
Why are you saying this?
-Because it's the truth,
and you need to know.
-Dammit.
You guys, I forgot.
I promised Dad I'd finish
ticketing this tour package
we have to get out
by tomorrow morning.
I'm going to have to drop
you guys off at the movie.
-You're not coming with us?
-You missed the turn, mom.
-I'|| circle back around.
I'll get there as
soon as I can, guys.
-What was his real name?
-Emmett.
He didn't really take
to a lot of people.
For him, you had to see the
world for the way it really is.
-We talked about that a lot.
Most people live their
lives, punch their clock,
but they never do anything,
accomplish anything.
-I know.
-His wife, his daughter, and
that poor son left all alone.
All that money, I
wanna give it to him.
-We can't, but he'll
be taken care of.
-That boy you were with in
Alexandria, was that your son?
-I'm not really supposed
to talk about it.
But, um, I'll be in touch.
-Did you get the settings?
Can you people build off them?
-What settings?
-On the machine.
The information I gave
you in Alexandria.
-Everything's been on hold
because of what happened.
-It can't be on hold.
The-- the plant where they're
grinding the propellers
is moving.
It's the one chance
to get In there
and read the settings
on the machine.
Who are you?
I need help.
Did you come to help me?
-Those are not the
words I'm looking for.
What do you need help with?
-Fixing my car.
I need-- I need
help fixing my car.
-Keep trying.
-Ma'am, did you come to
help me fix my car tonight?
-Yes, I heard you had a break
down, and I came to help.
-I was-- I was out
with him and he said,
do you want to have fun?
-Give me the gun.
He brought me here
to take drugs.
I-- I don't know-- I
don't know what to,
um-- I don't know what to do.
I can't-- I can't think.
-It's OK.
I'm here.
It's OK.
Well, good news, he's not dead.
What's your
relationship with him?
-He's a Congressional aide.
He works for a congressman,
the intelligence
committee overseeing
Central America.
-Who does he think you are?
-A graduate student in political
science from Costa Rica.
I can't breathe.
I can't-- I can't breathe.
-Do you know what you took?
-We smoked cocaine,
and I took pills.
-You're going to be OK.
Look at me.
How long have you been here?
In the US?
-Two months.
-You're doing fine.
Things can go wrong.
They usually do.
It's part of the job,
but we get through it.
You'll get through this.
I want you to sit here, and
I want you to watch him.
Can you do that?
-Uh-huh.
-OK.
-Wait.
Where are you going?
-I'm going to buy you something.
I'll be back soon.
-Who's the next one?
-Greg Arenko.
-That's him.
What time did he go in?
10:42.
-Is this the last one we got?
-Yep.
-Where are we?
-We started with the
surveIIIance photos
at 10:00 AM, an hour before the
source first heard anything,
and work our way
to 2:00 PM, when
they said things settled down.
We got everybody going in
and out of the Soviet Embassy
between those hours
and eliminated
the people we know
who work there.
These are the four
that are left.
One of them should
be the walk-in.
-Last guy who walked
into the Soviet Embassy
gave them the trigger designs
they use on all their nukes.
Let's figure out who this
guy is before Khrushchev
starts building his
own space shuttle.
-Drink.
All of it.
When he wakes up, tell
him you saved his life.
And by not taking him to the
hospital, you saved his future.
Probably wants to
be a senator, right?
-Probab|y.
-Eat those.
Don't party with him anymore.
Be his girlfriend.
-Thank you.
-I wish I could stay with
you, but I have to go.
You're going to be OK.
Your revolution is
beautiful, a foothold
for us in Central America.
We're here to help you.
Call any time.
-What do you got?
-Three of our four are out.
Two were fixing the
AC at the embassy,
one was bringing lunch.
-So tell me you gotta
name on this guy.
-Bruce Dameran.
36-years-old.
-Born in Reno, Nevada.
Purple heart in Vietnam.
Seven years employed,
department of agriculture.
-Currently employed, World Bank.
-Well, that's a nice spot for
the Soviets to get a source.
-Bring him in?
-Not yet.
Any news?
Yeah, I talked to him.
-You what?
It's a long story,
but he didn't do anything.
Are you sure?
-Yeah.
-Good.
-So, Martha has a 102.
-Um, you should
probably go over there.
-Are you OK?
-Yeah.
I'll talk to you
when you get home.
-OK, bye.
-We have a walk-in.
-We||, tell me about
Arkady's movements.
-Da.
Hello?
-How are you feeling?
-I don't know what happened.
It wasn't like this yesterday,
but then it just hit me.
Aanay, um, guess what?
I talked to personnel today,
and even though there aren't
any clerk openings in
counter-intelligence right now,
they gave me an
application to fill out.
So if something opens,
I will be on the list.
-That's great.
Listen, oh, you're not
going to believe this.
My flight got cancelled.
-Oh.
Oh no.
-Yeah, I'm stuck in a
Howard Johnson's in Boston.
I'm so sorry.
I wanted to bring you soup.
-That's sweet.
Well, don't worry about
it, I guess, get some rest.
-I will.
You, uh, you feel better, honey.
-C|ark, um, everybody has been
talking about those murders.
-Yep.
-Agent Brooks says that
crime is at an all time high,
and that it's only going
to get worse in DC.
I think women should be
able to protect themselves.
-Things like that
are really rare.
-I'm gonna get a gun.
-Martha.
-C|ark, I don't
want to be a victim.
-He||o, operator?
Could I get the area code
for Cresson, Pennsylvania?
Hi, I'm looking for
the phone number
and address for Helen Leavis?
-Hi, everybody, I'm home.
Hi, honey.
-Hi, Dad.
-How are you?
You OK?
-You're home.
-Yeah.
Yeah, I, uh, heard
your voice on the phone
so I thought I'd drive
straight through.
-Night.
-Goodnight.
You OK?
-Yeah.
-What are you going
to tell the kids?
-Lava.
I signalled the Centre.
It'll be tomorrow if
they want us to go.
-I keep thinking
about their son.
-I saw him walking back to
the room, when I was leaving.
I heard him screaming.
-What's going to
happen to him now?
-The Centre will make
sure he's taken care of.
-Taken care of how?
-Yeah.
-Phillip, all these
years, I-- I never
worried about Paige
and Henry being safe.
What happened to
Emmett and Leann,
I always knew that was a risk.
But seeing Amelia-- I mean, how
are we going to live like this?
-We'll get used to it.
Like we got used
to everything else.
I can't believe I
pulled Henry into that.
That I pulled him into this.
-You didn't have a choice.
-Yeah, I did.